---
title: "Forsen Suspected of Cheating After New 18:10 Minecraft Speedun"
date: 2023-03-25
category: drama
tags:
- forsen
- xqc
- speedrun
keywords:
- forsen
- xqc
- minecraft
- speedrun
- record
- cheating
cover: "https://i.ibb.co/8BS22zb/image.png"
author: "Sarah Siesztrzewitowski"
---

In a stunning turn of events in the Minecraft speedrunning community, popular
streamer Forsen (Sebastian Fors) has set a new record with an astonishing time
of 18 minutes and 10 seconds. The record-breaking run on March 23, 2023, has
not only solidified Forsen's status as a formidable speedrunner but has also
sparked controversy as accusations of cheating, led by xQc (FÃ©lix Lengyel),
swirl around the use of a Minecraft resource pack that introduces a new
language.

Forsen's remarkable achievement, beating his own previous record and surpassing
xQc's best time, has sent shockwaves through the gaming community. Fans and
fellow streamers alike have been quick to congratulate Forsen on his
exceptional performance, praising his skill, precision, and dedication to
mastering the intricacies of Minecraft speedrunning.

However, amid the celebrations, a cloud of suspicion has emerged as xQc
publicly expressed skepticism about Forsen's record-breaking run. The
controversy centers around Forsen's use of a Minecraft resource pack that
introduces a new language, raising concerns about whether this modification
provided an unfair advantage or altered the game's mechanics in a way that
impacted the speedrun.

# "Altered drop rates" claims xQc

{{< twitch ConcernedFancyOtterTTours-Nui6duxBPakeGNjn >}}

xQc, known for his competitive spirit and outspoken nature, took to his own
stream to voice these suspicions.

{{< twitch ObservantRudeWalrusRaccAttack-wedQruTsL9d4hmdW >}}

>"My run is legitimate. His run isn't. Literally."

He questioned the legitimacy of Forsen's record, suggesting that the resource
pack may have played a role in achieving such an unprecedented time. As of now,
Forsen has not responded to these accusations, leaving the gaming community in
suspense and awaiting an official statement.

The controversy has ignited discussions on forums, social media platforms, and
within the Twitch community. Fans are divided on the matter, with some
defending Forsen's right to use resource packs as part of his speedrunning
strategy, while others echo xQc's concerns about the potential influence of the
language-altering pack on the legitimacy of the record.

{{< youtube id="ZpOc_gOwhdw?start=156" >}}

*YouTuber "Udisen" showing off possibly altered game files with language pack*

As the gaming community eagerly awaits Forsen's response to these accusations,
the controversy has brought attention to the complex and evolving nature of
speedrunning in the digital age. The debate surrounding the use of mods,
resource packs, and other modifications highlights the need for clear
guidelines and standards within the speedrunning community to ensure fair
competition and maintain the integrity of record-breaking achievements.
