---
title: "Summoner whips should be removed from Terraria"
date: 2022-07-23T23:31:33-07:00
featured: true
category: opinion
tags:
- terraria
keywords:
- terraria
- whip
- whips
- mod
- modded
- mods
- worst
- class
- summoner
- avoid
author: "BoldBlokeMask"
cover: "/img/summoner.png"
---

If you have played Terraria, it is like a 2D Minecraft. You can build, craft,
and fight monsters in your sandbox adventure game. However, this game has mods,
and one of them being /Calamity/. Calamity is a mod that adds significantly more
content to the Terraria base game. It is sort of like an expansion pack for
Terraria, but for free.

In Calamity, there are five available classes you can play: Melee, Ranged,
Magic, Summoner, and Rogue. These five classes have distinct playstyles and have
different skillsets you need to use them effectively. For example, melee needs
to have good health management. They have to keep track of when their health is
going down. Ranged needs to have good distance management. If they get too
close, they will get attacked. Magic needs to have good timing. They have to
precisely time their magic attacks so they do not waste their mana. Rogue
requires patience. If you aren't a patient player and just loves to attack,
rogue wouldn't be a good class to play.

However, summoner is the least skilled class to play. You can do lots of damage
without any real effort. You just have to get near the boss to even attack them.
This class virtually takes no skill and isn't even efficient at killing bosses.

After the 1.4 update, whips were added to try to make pure summoner more viable
to play. These whips can help your minions deal more damage to priority targets
and inflict debuffs. However, whips aren't really a good solution for the pure
summoner problem. There are many problems with whips that have ruined the
Terraria experience.

* Whips are just a glorified melee

If you have played with a whip as a summoner, you will see that whips are
basically like flails. You throw them at a specific direction to deal damage at
that direction. This is just a fancy way for summoners to play melee. It doesn't
add any depth to the summoner class at all and instead uses an existing game
mechanic and applies it to summoners. It is rather a lazy implementation by
Re-Logic.

Whips would be most suited for melee characters. If you removed the summoner
damage from whips, people would see it as a melee weapon. Of course, adding
summoner damage would just be a simple way to make a summoner weapon instea dof
an actual reworking of summoner.

The developers could have added whips as a new flail weapon for melee, but
instead, they made it a summoner weapon. Instead of rebalancing the actual
summoner mechanics, they just applied an easy fix by using weapons that wouldn't
belong to a summoner.

* Whips ruin the entire point of summoner

Many summoner mains know that the best way to play summoner is to let your
minions fight while you maintain a distance from the boss. However, whips limit
you to stay as close as possible to the boss and attack them directly. You have
to get close to the boss to deal damage with whips, and you aren't just letting
your minions do the damage; you are also dealing damage with the whips. The
implementation of whips have ruined the way summoner should be played.

If whips were made longer, this would remedy the issue a bit; however, it
doesn't change the fact that it's simply a melee weapon that does summoner
damage. The summoner would still be basically playing a longer range melee class
that has helpers do a bit more damage.

* Whips make summoner even less skilled

#+caption: 25k DPS by simply holding left click? Really?
[[/img/summoner-skill.jpg]]

Summoner is the least skilled class in Terraria; everyone knows that's a fact.
However, adding whips makes it even less skilled. Your already skill-less class
is having the computer do the aiming and shooting for you, and using a whip
would simply let them do their job even better. This means that you can achieve
a high DPS by simply having your minions around and meleeing the enemies. You
literally just hold left click in order to double your damage.

In addition, 1.4 introduces a new mechanic called /whip-stacking/, where you can
use multiple whips to inflict multiple debuffs. This literally only takes 3
button presses to even use this whip-stack mechanic. It doesn't matter if you're
7 or 77 years old, you will still be able to beat Terraria with summoner.

Terraria is a sandbox game that anyone can pick up, but it takes years to master
and to get good at. Many people study this game in and out, with playtime
greater than 10000. These people have demonstrated how skilled you can get at
the game, and it has proven that Terraria is a skill-based Minecraft bullet
hell.

* Whips are boring

Who doesn't love holding your mouse button over the same place, right? Whips are
the most uninteresting and unengaging. Other classes, like ranged amd magic,
requires you to have good management skills and keep an eye on your resources,
such as ammo and mana. This creates for more ways to handle fights. How
conservative should you be with your resources? When should you attack and when
should you stay away? And with melee, you have to tank damage efficiently and
find a good strategy to aggro the boss away from your team.

With summoner, all you're thinking about is your health. That's it. You are just
holding left click. There is nothing engaging about that. Maybe dodge a couple
of times, but that's it. A better alternative would be to let minions deal more
damage during their initial summon. That way, players can summon minions on
enemies to deal extra damage and make summoner gameplay more interesting.

* In conclusion...

The three clases melee, ranger, and mage have been balanced in Terraria since
its initial release, but summoner has been left in the dust. Pre 1.4, they were
not a viable class to play, but post 1.4, they became one of the strangest class
to exist. It's an amalgamation of melee and magic that introduces weird gameplay
mechanics to ruin the skill and purpose of summoner.
