---
title: "xQc Shatters Forsen's Minecraft Speedrun Record"
date: 2023-01-05
category: news
tags:
- forsen
- xqc
- speedrun
keywords:
- forsen
- xqc
- minecraft
- speedrun
- record
cover: "https://i.ibb.co/dk08fMD/image.png"
author: "Sarah Siesztrzewitowski"
---

In a surprising turn of events for the Minecraft speedrunning community,
popular streamer xQc (FÃ©lix Lengyel) has smashed Forsen's longstanding record
with an impressive time of 20 minutes and 5 seconds, marking a new era in the
competitive landscape of the game. Forsen's previous record of 20 minutes and
38 seconds, set the stage for an intense rivalry that culminated in xQc's
triumphant run on January 4, 2023.

Forsen, known for his prowess in Minecraft speedrunning, had held the record
for a significant period, becoming a benchmark for aspiring speedrunners.
However, xQc's incredible performance showcased not only his gaming skills but
also his determination to beat the record after 2 years.

The breaking of Forsen's record by xQc was met with excitement and anticipation
from fans across the gaming world. The Twitch chat was flooded with messages
congratulating xQc on his remarkable achievement, and social media platforms
erupted with discussions about the epic showdown between these two influential
streamers.

{{< reddit-embed "https://www.reddit.com/r/LivestreamFail/comments/1038naq/xqc_beats_forsens_minecraft_speedrun_record_2005/j2xfxj4/" >}}

# xQc's New Record

xQc's speedrun, clocking in at 20:05, demonstrated a meticulous understanding
of Minecraft's mechanics and a level of precision that has solidified his
status as one of the speedrunners in the community. The run not only showcased
his individual skill but also highlighted the competitive nature of
speedrunning, where records are continually challenged and broken.

The Minecraft speedrunning scene has been thriving in recent years, with
streamers and gamers from around the world participating in and contributing to
its growth. The constant evolution of strategies, techniques, and glitches
keeps the community dynamic, offering viewers an engaging spectacle and
providing streamers with opportunities to etch their names in the annals of
gaming history.

As xQc basks in the glory of his new record, the Minecraft speedrunning
community eagerly anticipates the next chapter in this ongoing saga. With each
record broken, the bar is raised higher, inspiring gamers to strive for
excellence and redefine what is achievable in the ever-expanding world of
online gaming. The rivalry between Forsen and xQc has not only captivated fans
but has also contributed to the rich tapestry of stories that make the gaming
community a vibrant and exciting place to be.

# Reactions

{{< tweet user="xQc" id="1610688616984113153" >}}
