---
title: "xQc Blows Forsen Record Out of the Water with 16:38"
date: 2023-05-08
category: news
tags:
- forsen
- xqc
- speedrun
keywords:
- forsen
- xqc
- minecraft
- speedrun
- record
cover: "https://i.ibb.co/3sVZ73B/image.png"
author: "Sarah Siesztrzewitowski"
---

In an electrifying turn of events, popular Twitch streamer xQc (Félix Lengyel)
has once again made waves in the Minecraft speedrunning community by
obliterating Forsen's recently achieved record. On May 7th, 2023, xQc showcased
his exceptional gaming prowess with an astonishing time of 16 minutes and 38
seconds, setting a new standard in the fiercely competitive world of Minecraft
speedrunning.

# xQc's Speedrun Record Time of 16:38

xQc's triumphant run not only solidifies his status as one of the top
speedrunners but also reaffirms the dynamic nature of the Minecraft
speedrunning scene. Just weeks after Forsen set the community abuzz with his
record of 18:10, xQc's latest achievement has redefined the boundaries of what
was previously thought possible in the game.

The Twitch chat exploded with excitement as xQc navigated the virtual world
with unparalleled speed and precision, showcasing a deep understanding of
Minecraft's mechanics and an unparalleled ability to execute complex strategies
flawlessly. Fans and fellow streamers flooded social media with congratulatory
messages, recognizing the significance of xQc's achievement in the evolving
landscape of speedrunning.

The rivalry between Forsen and xQc has become a captivating saga within the
Minecraft speedrunning community. With each new record, the two streamers push
each other to greater heights, thrilling audiences with their competitive
spirit and determination to outdo one another.

As the gaming community celebrates xQc's latest triumph, it's worth noting the
continued growth and excitement surrounding Minecraft speedrunning. The
evolving strategies, precision execution, and friendly competition between
streamers contribute to the rich tapestry of stories that captivate viewers and
inspire aspiring speedrunners.

In the aftermath of this record-breaking run, Forsen has yet to publicly
respond or comment on xQc's latest achievement. The absence of a response adds
an air of mystery to the ongoing rivalry, leaving fans to speculate on whether
Forsen will rise to the challenge and attempt to reclaim the title or if xQc
will continue to hold the throne in the competitive world of Minecraft
speedrunning.

The May 7th showdown between xQc and Forsen marks another chapter in the
evolving narrative of Minecraft speedrunning, demonstrating the relentless
pursuit of excellence within the gaming community. As fans eagerly await the
next move in this gripping saga, one thing is certain—Minecraft speedrunning
has never been more exhilarating, and the competition shows no signs of slowing
down.

{{< tweet user="xQc" id="1655147815977492480" >}}

{{< reddit-embed "https://www.reddit.com/r/LivestreamFail/comments/13ahutt/juicer_destroys_forsens_record_sub_17min/jj6ugm9/" >}}
